README.md, before:

gl-texture2d
============
WebGL texture object wrapper

# Example

[Try it in your browser right now](http://gl-modules.github.io/gl-texture2d/)

```javascript
var shell = require("gl-now")()
var createShader = require("gl-shader")
var createTexture = require("gl-texture2d")
var drawTriangle = require("a-big-triangle")
var baboon = require("baboon-image")
var glslify = require("glslify")

var createShader = glslify({
  vertex:"\
    attribute vec2 position;\
    varying vec2 texCoord;\
    void main() {\
      gl_Position = vec4(position, 0, 1);\
      texCoord = vec2(0.0,1.0)+vec2(0.5,-0.5) * (position + 1.0);\
    }", 
  fragment: "\
    precision highp float;\
    uniform sampler2D texture;\
    varying vec2 texCoord;\
    void main() {\
      gl_FragColor = texture2D(texture, texCoord);\
    }",
  inline: true
})

var shader, texture

shell.on("gl-init", function() {
  var gl = shell.gl
  
  //Create texture
  texture = createTexture(gl, baboon)

  //Create shader
  shader = createShader(gl)
  shader.attributes.position.location = 0
})

shell.on("gl-render", function() {
  //Draw it
  shader.bind()
  shader.uniforms.texture = texture.bind()
  drawTriangle(shell.gl)
})
```

Here is what it should look like:

<img src="https://raw.github.com/mikolalysenko/gl-texture2d/master/screenshot.png">

# Install

    npm install gl-texture2d

# API

```javascript
var createTexture = require("gl-texture2d")
```

## Constructor
There are three basic usage patterns for `createTexture`:

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, shape[, format, type])`
Creates an unitialized texture with the given dimensions and format

* `shape` is a length 2 array representing the `[rows, columns]` of the texture
* `format` (optional) is the format of the texture (default `gl.RGBA`)
* `type` is the type of texture (default `gl.UNSIGNED_BYTE`)

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, domElement[, format, type])`
Creates a texture from the given data source.  Where `domElement` is one of the following items:

* An `ImageData` object
* An `HTMLCanvas` object
* An `HTMLImage` object
* An `HTMLVideo` object

And `format` is an OpenGL data format or defaults to `gl.RGBA` and `type` is the storage type which defaults to `gl.UNSIGNED_BYTE`

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, array)`
Creates a texture from an [ndarray](https://github.com/mikolalysenko/ndarray).  The rules for selecting the format and type depend on the shape of the ndarray.  The type of the texture is inferred according to the following rules.  Let:

* `dtype = ndarray.dtype(array)`
* `shape = array.shape`

Then the rules for `type` and `format` are defined according to the following table:

| `dtype`      | `shape`    | `format`        | `type`                 |
| ------------ |:----------:|:---------------:|:----------------------:|
| `float*`     | [m,n]      | LUMINANCE       | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [m,n,1]    | ALPHA           | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [m,n,2]    | LUMINANCE_ALPHA | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [m,n,3]    | RGB             | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [m,n,4]    | RGBA            | FLOAT                  |
| `(u)int*`    | [m,n]      | LUMINANCE       | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [m,n,1]    | ALPHA           | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [m,n,2]    | LUMINANCE_ALPHA | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [m,n,3]    | RGB             | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [m,n,4]    | RGBA            | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |

Other combinations of shape and dtype are invalid and throw an error.

## Texture Methods

### `tex.bind([texUnit])`
Binds the texture for use.  Basically a short cut for:

```javascript
gl.activeTexture(gl.TEXTURE0 + texUnit)
gl.bindTexture(gl.TEXTURE_2D, this.handle)
```
If `texUnit` is not specified then the active texture is not changed.

**Returns** The texture unit the texture is bound to.

### `tex.dispose()``
Destroys the texture object and releases all of its resources.  Under the hood this is equivalent to:

```javascript
gl.deleteTexture(this.handle)
```

### `tex.setPixels(data[, offset, mipLevel])`
Unpacks `data` into a subregion of the texture.  As before in the constructor `data` can be either an `ndarray`, `HTMLCanvas`, `HTMLImage` or `HTMLVideo` object.  If `data` is an ndarray it must have a compatible format with the initial array layout.

* `offset` is a length 2 array representing the offset into which the pixels will be written in `[rows,columns]`.  (Default: `[0,0]`)
* `mipLevel` is the mip level to write to. (Default `0`)

If `data` is an `ndarray` the same rules as in the constructor are followed for converting the type of the buffer.

### `tex.generateMipmap()`
Generates mipmaps for the texture.  This will fail if the texture dimensions are not a power of two.

## Texture Properties

#### `tex.shape`
An array representing the dimensions of the texture in `[rows, columns]`.  Writing to this value will resize the texture and invalidate its contents.  For example, to resize the texture `tex` to the shape `[newRows, newColumns]` you can do:

```javascript
tex.shape = [newRows, newColumns]
```

#### `tex.wrap`
Texture wrap around behavior for rows/columns of the texture.  Used to set/get `[gl.TEXTURE_WRAP_T, gl.TEXTURE_WRAP_S]`.  Defaults to `[gl.CLAMP_TO_EDGE, gl.CLAMP_TO_EDGE]`.  To update this value, write to it with a vector. For example,

```javascript
tex.wrap = [gl.MIRRORED_REPEAT, gl.REPEAT]
```

Or you can update it with a single value to set the wrap mode for both axes:

```javascript
tex.wrap = gl.REPEAT
```

#### `tex.magFilter`
Magnification filter.  Used to set/get `gl.TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER`. Defaults to `gl.NEAREST`

#### `tex.minFilter`
Minification filter. Used to set/get `gl.TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER`. Defaults to `gl.NEAREST`

#### `tex.mipSamples`
The number of anisotropic filtering samples to use.  This requires `EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic` to have any effect.  High values will improve mipmap quality, but decrease performance.

## Internals

#### `tex.gl`
A reference to the WebGL context of the texture.

#### `tex.handle`
A handle to the underlying texture object.

#### `tex.format`
The internal format of the texture.

#### `tex.type`
The internal data type of the texture.


# Credits
(c) 2013 Mikola Lysenko. MIT License

Commit message:

change to width/height instead of rows/columns

README.md, after:

gl-texture2d
============
WebGL texture object wrapper

# Example

[Try it in your browser right now](http://gl-modules.github.io/gl-texture2d/)

```javascript
var shell         = require("gl-now")()
var createShader  = require("gl-shader")
var createTexture = require("gl-texture2d")
var drawTriangle  = require("a-big-triangle")
var baboon        = require("baboon-image")
var glslify       = require("glslify")

var createShader = glslify({
  vertex:"\
    attribute vec2 position;\
    varying vec2 texCoord;\
    void main() {\
      gl_Position = vec4(position, 0, 1);\
      texCoord = vec2(0.0,1.0)+vec2(0.5,-0.5) * (position + 1.0);\
    }", 
  fragment: "\
    precision highp float;\
    uniform sampler2D texture;\
    varying vec2 texCoord;\
    void main() {\
      gl_FragColor = texture2D(texture, texCoord);\
    }",
  inline: true
})

var shader, texture

shell.on("gl-init", function() {
  var gl = shell.gl
  
  //Create texture
  texture = createTexture(gl, baboon)

  //Create shader
  shader = createShader(gl)
  shader.attributes.position.location = 0
})

shell.on("gl-render", function() {
  //Draw it
  shader.bind()
  shader.uniforms.texture = texture.bind()
  drawTriangle(shell.gl)
})
```

Here is what it should look like:

<img src="https://raw.github.com/mikolalysenko/gl-texture2d/master/screenshot.png">

# Install

    npm install gl-texture2d

# API

```javascript
var createTexture = require("gl-texture2d")
```

## Constructor
There are three basic usage patterns for `createTexture`:

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, shape[, format, type])`
Creates an unitialized texture with the given dimensions and format

* `shape` is a length 2 array representing the `[width, height]` of the texture
* `format` (optional) is the format of the texture (default `gl.RGBA`)
* `type` is the type of texture (default `gl.UNSIGNED_BYTE`)

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, domElement[, format, type])`
Creates a texture from the given data source.  Where `domElement` is one of the following items:

* An `ImageData` object
* An `HTMLCanvas` object
* An `HTMLImage` object
* An `HTMLVideo` object

And `format` is an OpenGL data format or defaults to `gl.RGBA` and `type` is the storage type which defaults to `gl.UNSIGNED_BYTE`

### `var tex = createTexture(gl, array)`
Creates a texture from an [ndarray](https://github.com/mikolalysenko/ndarray).  The rules for selecting the format and type depend on the shape of the ndarray.  The type of the texture is inferred according to the following rules.  Let:

* `dtype = ndarray.dtype(array)`
* `shape = array.shape`

Then the rules for `type` and `format` are defined according to the following table:

| `dtype`      | `shape`    | `format`        | `type`                 |
| ------------ |:----------:|:---------------:|:----------------------:|
| `float*`     | [w,h]      | LUMINANCE       | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [w,h,1]    | ALPHA           | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [w,h,2]    | LUMINANCE_ALPHA | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [w,h,3]    | RGB             | FLOAT                  |
| `float*`     | [w,h,4]    | RGBA            | FLOAT                  |
| `(u)int*`    | [w,h]      | LUMINANCE       | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [w,h,1]    | ALPHA           | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [w,h,2]    | LUMINANCE_ALPHA | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [w,h,3]    | RGB             | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |
| `(u)int*`    | [w,h,4]    | RGBA            | UNSIGNED_BYTE          |

Other combinations of shape and dtype are invalid and throw an error.

## Texture Methods

### `tex.bind([texUnit])`
Binds the texture for use.  Basically a short cut for:

```javascript
gl.activeTexture(gl.TEXTURE0 + texUnit)
gl.bindTexture(gl.TEXTURE_2D, this.handle)
```
If `texUnit` is not specified then the active texture is not changed.

**Returns** The texture unit the texture is bound to.

### `tex.dispose()``
Destroys the texture object and releases all of its resources.  Under the hood this is equivalent to:

```javascript
gl.deleteTexture(this.handle)
```

### `tex.setPixels(data[, offset, mipLevel])`
Unpacks `data` into a subregion of the texture.  As before in the constructor `data` can be either an `ndarray`, `HTMLCanvas`, `HTMLImage` or `HTMLVideo` object.  If `data` is an ndarray it must have a compatible format with the initial array layout.

* `offset` is a length 2 array representing the offset into which the pixels will be written in `[x,y]`.  (Default: `[0,0]`)
* `mipLevel` is the mip level to write to. (Default `0`)

If `data` is an `ndarray` the same rules as in the constructor are followed for converting the type of the buffer.

### `tex.generateMipmap()`
Generates mipmaps for the texture.  This will fail if the texture dimensions are not a power of two.

## Texture Properties

#### `tex.shape`
An array representing the dimensions of the texture in `[rows, columns]`.  Writing to this value will resize the texture and invalidate its contents.  For example, to resize the texture `tex` to the shape `[newWidth, newHeight]` you can do:

```javascript
tex.shape = [newWidth, newHeight]
```

#### `tex.wrap`
Texture wrap around behavior for rows/columns of the texture.  Used to set/get `[gl.TEXTURE_WRAP_T, gl.TEXTURE_WRAP_S]`.  Defaults to `[gl.CLAMP_TO_EDGE, gl.CLAMP_TO_EDGE]`.  To update this value, write to it with a vector. For example,

```javascript
tex.wrap = [gl.MIRRORED_REPEAT, gl.REPEAT]
```

Or you can update it with a single value to set the wrap mode for both axes:

```javascript
tex.wrap = gl.REPEAT
```

#### `tex.magFilter`
Magnification filter.  Used to set/get `gl.TEXTURE_MAG_FILTER`. Defaults to `gl.NEAREST`

#### `tex.minFilter`
Minification filter. Used to set/get `gl.TEXTURE_MIN_FILTER`. Defaults to `gl.NEAREST`

#### `tex.mipSamples`
The number of anisotropic filtering samples to use.  This requires `EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic` to have any effect.  High values will improve mipmap quality, but decrease performance.

## Internals

#### `tex.gl`
A reference to the WebGL context of the texture.

#### `tex.handle`
A handle to the underlying texture object.

#### `tex.format`
The internal format of the texture.

#### `tex.type`
The internal data type of the texture.

# Credits
(c) 2013-2014 Mikola Lysenko. MIT License
